There's a great quote by I think Sam
Alman, right, which is momentum is like
oxygen for a startup. You just feed off
of that momentum and it lets you put
more and more energy and more and more
cash if you need to into the company to
keep it growing. Within 45 days we had
crossed 100,000 ARR. Within 4 months we
crossed a million and then within 5
months we had crossed 2 million. And so
we just had more and more capital, more
and more confidence to reinvest into the
company to keep growing and keep working
with creators. Hello, I'm your host
David Bernard and with me today, Revenue
Cat CEO Jacob Eiding. Our guests today
are Brett Bowman and Zach Harut,
co-founders of Cocoonote, an AI powered
note-taking app that was recently
acquired by Quizlet. On the podcast, we
talk with Zach and Brett about hitting a
million dollars in ARR in four months
with no pay ads, why trial extensions
beat discounts for saving cancellations,
and why you should be hiring content
creators, not influencers. Zach, thanks
so much for joining us on the podcast
today.
>> You got it, David. Thanks for having me.
>> And Brett, nice to have you as well.
>> Happy to be here. Jacob back on the pod
>> with a with a fourperson pod. My my
commentation budget is cut in half. So
you may not hear that much from me, but
who wants to hear from me anyway? These
guys got the story to tell. So
>> they have a great story. Uh always fun
to have you on the for the color
commentary and uh feel free to interrupt
and interject to get get the color
commentary going. I'm going to kind of
spoil the ending, but I think this is
going to be in the title anyway. Brett
and Zach, you founded Cocoonote not too
long ago. uh what about two years ago
and got it to 6.7 million in ARR and
then just sold to Quizlet. So quite a
story for a bootstrapped app to go so
quickly to that much ARR and then to
sell to such a big storied company in
the subscription app space. So I wanted
to kick it off just with the story of
you know when exactly was it and how did
uh Coconut come together? I think we
take it back to 2022. Uh I had just shut
down my last startup which raised
venture capital. We were a uh consumer
product studio. We were building for uh
high school students and college
students. So I really thought most often
of my little sister Emma uh my steps
sister Emma who was in high school and
then going into college right around
then. So it was 2022. I was tinkering
around with a Chrome extension which
summarized blog posts and YouTube videos
because frankly I didn't want to watch
you know an hourong YouTube video. I
really just wanted like the two three
sentence summary. And same thing with
blog posts, right? I came across a lot
of blog posts that I wanted to read, but
I didn't want to, you know, spend 30
minutes reading it. I just wanted the
summary to see if I wanted to dig
deeper. And then Brett and I started
tinkering on a way to replace Siri with
back then GPT4 in 2023.
>> That's what I was going to ask. So those
summarizations, those were like the
first like using LLMs to do summaries
which was like very very novel in 22,
right?
>> Exactly. 23. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And back then I believe it
was still GPT3 or some version of GPD 3
something
>> which worked but it's nothing like what
we have today. Right.
>> Exactly.
>> Yes, for sure. And uh yeah and Brett and
I started tinkering and I think we
realized the power of voice. we, you
know, were thinking about summarization
from the Chrome extension that I was
kind of hacking on. And then we saw the
the success of some notetakers that were
more business focused, but we didn't
think people were really taking it
seriously. And so something that comes
to my mind is a a great Charlie Mer
quote, which is simple ideas taken
seriously. We kind of came to this
simple idea that this could be great for
college students and we committed about
two years ago.
>> So, how did the two of you meet? I know
you you were both at Loom, but you
didn't overlap. So, h how did y'all meet
and how did how did you decide to build
that together?
>> Yeah, so Zach uh was there before I was
and we basically just worked with the
same people. Um and I was on the mobile
team. Zach did all kinds of things at
Loom uh being there earlier than me and
helped get the mobile team started. But
Zach, I feel like it was at like the
offsite one time in LA. Zach was uh
still coming to offsites even though he
didn't work there anymore for some
reason. And
um some of our like mutual friends were
just like you guys should you guys
should meet and and we did and uh that's
kind of the how it started. Yeah,
>> that's pretty cool. Jacob, is there an
unofficial policy if if I ever leave
Revenue Cat, do I get invited or or I
just get the boot? How does that work?
I don't think I would get the invit.
>> Nobody leaves Revenue Cat. That's the
thing. I didn't know you guys were Loom
alums. Uh obviously like massive fans,
still daily active. That's like such a
great interesting product, right? And
that it makes a lot of sense like how
that sets you up for this project,
right? It's like summarization,
note-taking, info collection, and I
think so much what works great about
Loom is like recording a video, you can
do it with QuickTime Player, right? So,
it's like in some ways not that
complicated, but Loom makes an amazing
product out of it, right? And it's
mostly the dressing, right? And like the
interfacing and like the delivery. So,
seems like there's a real parallel here
between, you know, Coconut and and and
Loom. I think not a lot of people pick
up on that, but it is kind of loom on
easy mode a little bit, recording audio
and uploading it and summarizing it and
all that.
>> I just want to say my favorite part of
that night. Absolutely. I think it was
at Elephante Brett in Santa Monica and I
was living like a couple blocks away. I
won't say who uh to protect the
innocent, but someone was like, you
know, looked at Brett, looked at me and
was like, "You two should meet and I'm
not going to be part of this. It's like
I'm going to walk away because I I
shouldn't know about what you guys talk
about.
>> That's why ex employees are not invited
to offsite
>> and so I think the you know the universe
if you put out startup vibes and you
know I don't know the universe has a way
of like making things work out.
>> Was it like you two just really hit it
off like these these kind of founder
stories are so fascinating to me like
how did two people get together to build
these things? Like did you hit it off
and then like hey let's just build
something together cuz it sounds like
you started building before you actually
built coconut. I might interject and
just say like you know obviously
choosing co-founders is like a super
fraught thing and like there's probably
as many failures way probably way more
failure like most startup early stage
startup failures are because of
co-founder mismatch like they sometimes
get labeled other things but most of the
time it's like co-founders just weren't
the right combo but like if you haven't
worked with somebody directly I would
say both coming through the same alma
modders of the same organization
certainly is like the next best thing
right because you at least know you've
passed through like a similar cultural
filter and also like This is under under
appreciated probably is that you have a
shared social network too, right? So you
have like outside of the financial
alignment that you have starting a
company, you kind of have an incentive
not to screw the other person because
like you have similar friends, right? So
you like you don't want to like mess up,
you know, there's there's more in it
than just like the time, right? There's
like there's there's a lot more
connection, but it it's super hard. I
mean, I I don't want to take over the
podcast, but like I think this is one of
like the hardest problems you can get
right in starting a company.
>> I think there's kind of an obvious
complimentary skill set, right? So
Brett's background is making apps. My
background is making apps, but I'm not
especially technical. And so me having a
design and product background, which is
what I did at Loom. And then as a
first-time founder realizing that if you
build it, they will not come. You have
to level up marketing. And so I had to
get relatively decent at marketing in my
first startup. And then Brett with an
engineering background, but does so much
more than just engineering. I think
there was like a very obvious skill set
match. And the last thing I'll say
there, I'd be curious to hear what Brett
has to say about this. I was mostly
like, you know, bugging Brett like, hey,
you know, hey, I have this idea. I'd
love to execute on this. And it's him
being like, um, well, maybe. I don't
know. We'll see. And then, you know,
eventually I bugged him to do one and
then the next. And then we were just
kind of hacking and iterating. And, uh,
you know, you know, thankfully he said
yes.
>> So, you met, you hit it off, you figured
out you wanted to build something
together. You started tinkering with the
the Siri thing. Um, but then tell us the
story of like when you realized like
coconut was what you were going to build
and and how you got that to launch.
>> So yeah, like I had mentioned, I'd been
building a lot for Emma, which is this
archetype that I had in my head, who's
my little sister. She was entering
college as a first year uh civil
engineering major. She still is a civil
engineer. So we were thinking about
this. We were thinking a lot about how
can we, you know, summarize things, help
people learn. It's kind of a mishmash of
things. And then we arrived at
Cocoonote. There were some apps, not iOS
apps, but actually web apps that were
out there on the market doing a similar
thing, but they weren't taking it
seriously and so we just decided to
execute on it. I would say one of the
things that we did really, really well
in hindsight is get momentum as soon as
possible. So we had a free trial from
day one, but we were in effect charging
from day one. And this is where you know
this will play out over the course of
two years. David, Jacob, my fascination
with checking the revenue cat chart led
to my wife to have basically an
intervention. Like, Zach, I think you
have a problem. You check this thing way
too often. And it started from basically
day one because we were trying to get,
you know, momentum as quickly as
possible. One way to look at momentum
would be, you know, something on mix
panel. So like usage and retention and
very important metrics, but there's
nothing quite like the dopamine high of
realizing you're creating something
valuable to the world and people are
returning.
>> You captured some of it, right? Like
there's it's hard to debate something is
being done there. You can have a lot of
useless mix panel events, right? I've
always thought about this like I don't
>> intentionally in some ways don't want to
create fidget spinners for app founders,
right? Like some sort of just addiction.
But I also think that like hey starting
and building I think is intense and it
takes like a ridiculous amount of focus.
I think they're you know much to the
detriment of the loved ones in your
life. Like checking that thing
frequently is not the worst thing in the
world, right? You have to stare at it
every day. Was it on the mobile app? Was
that was that because the mobile app I
think came out like halfway probably
through
>> I was checking mobile web. I always had
>> mobile. Yeah.
>> Yeah. The the the mobile app we we
released is like we really weaponized
the uh the push notification addiction
uh for people. So anyway,
>> the widget even Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, this is my official like
surgeon general's warning to like, you
know, you can adjust your notification
settings. You don't have to get a
notification and check your thing every
single time, but you know, if you want
to get acquired by Quizlet, maybe you
do. I don't know.
>> How long were y'all were working on it
before the April 2024 launch?
>> Not super long. We really wanted to
scope it down and launch something
quickly and basic and I would say we
achieved that and it like sort of worked
when we launched, you know, but that was
fine. There's a lot about it honestly
that looks the same today as it did back
then. Um, which is which is cool, but
there was plenty of like audio
recordings getting lost and and things
like that.
>> I guess you know it's it kind of feels
like this is one of those cases where
new fundamental technology breakthrough
like this wouldn't have been an app you
could have built two years prior, right?
>> Totally. Yeah.
>> And so you guys there's a huge first
movers advantage, right, to getting this
and this would have been very early. I
remember around this time looking for
like casual note-taking apps like there
were some of them I forget like they've
all like cycled in and out already for
yeah like the business context and I was
like man it'd be nice if I could just
set this on the table you know when I'm
meeting with somebody in person but yeah
how much of the how much of the product
improvement did you guys just kind of
get for free as like the models
progressed over those two years? Was it
was it substantial? Did the product just
get better and cheaper to like operate
every every two months as the models
shipped or or was it like a lot of like
product development and fixing and
harness building?
>> Uh definitely both. I mean um you know
adding new features, building things as
new capabilities come out,
>> right? Adapting to new functionality.
>> Yeah. Yeah. That's something we still do
today. And that could be like building a
podcast uh that you can create. Um, so
you're kind of going from audio to text
to a summary and then back to audio
again in a shorter form.
>> It would be weird to just listen to your
lecture again, right? Maybe. I don't
know. That's funny that there was demand
for that.
>> Yeah. I think it gives people some
safety knowing that they can listen to
it again and like kind of zone out um or
if they want to replay something.
>> Oh, interesting. like in the moment
people are relaxed more like so your app
is provide even when their recording is
happening you're providing value because
like they just have the peace of mind
that this is recorded I can like
reference it later like all of those
things that's I guess obvious when you
say it but like uh you think of app
value being delivered when an app is
used right and I guess the app is being
used at that point but not in a
consumptive way right it's just being
it's doing its job passively which is
cool
>> right right they're recording it to
really come back later and use what
they're getting right now and it's
something We discovered from feedback
when like things would go wrong, you
know, and realize how much trust they're
giving us.
>> Oh yeah, that's a bad moment.
>> Losing it.
>> Losing a recording. Ouch.
>> One of the best things that we did, we
just asked our customers, how would you
describe Cocoonote? And a great majority
of them, it was shocking how consistent
this was. They use Cocoonote to never
miss a key detail. And that is exactly
what we put in the first App Store
preview screen. And so I think one of
the cool things that we did with Coconut
that I'd never done in the past is
listen to how your customers describe
your product and then say that back to
them. Right? There are parallels here
with even presidential campaigns or
government, you know, position campaigns
where you're listening to what resonates
with your voter base and then you're
saying it back to them. And I think
that's in part what a good marketer
does.
>> That's fascinating. You know, I was just
thinking I actually had a version of
this in the '9s by having this amazing
study group and like what I did I I
didn't take notes. Two girls that I
would take every class with who were in
my same degree plan would take
meticulous notes and then we'd have
study groups together where I was like
chill listening getting the bigger
concepts. They were taking notes. I was
more relaxed and then our study sessions
were incredible. So like you basically
productized what I like lucked into
>> the the classic group project hanger on
monetized. That's a good point though.
It's you know what I mean like like I
mean okay we talk about technology as
like deflationary right and like it's a
weird because you didn't pay to be part
of a study group right but you were
lucky to have that you had to put energy
to put that together. It's difficult to
like find the right people and all that
stuff. And I was bringing that up to the
point Brett was saying about like being
able to be relaxed during the session
and really listen has value and like it
was valuable. I wasn't just the hanger
on. Like there was value to them for me
to like bring in context that they
missed because they were frantically
taking notes.
>> More brains are better than one whether
they run on a GPU or not.
>> Yeah. Yeah. So, like that's what's so
cool is like and and for those who don't
aren't fully familiar with the product,
you record lectures like in high school,
college, and then it generates notes,
flashcards, quizzes, podcasts, games,
mind maps, like it it generates all this
other content. And that's kind of what
we were doing in this study group in the
'90s
>> with immense human effort, right? Which
which um goes back to the deflationary
point, right? Like this technology just
like free money. It's free real estate,
right? It's not free obviously, but very
very cheap compared to like the
alternative.
>> In those early days, what were the key
like insights and product unlocks that
that took you because it sounds like you
you got some initial launch traction,
but what were those like stepping stone
moments that really kind of like kept
taking it to that next level?
>> Well, there's something that I look for
in consumer apps and trying to
understand why they've been so
successful. And I I look at ones like
Ladder or All Trails or Strava and I
think that they all associate with like
a person's identity and then it's
something that they repeat frequently
whether it's like running or
weightlifting. And to us we we felt like
we were capturing a student's identity
and going to class and recording as
something you do daily or or a few times
a week. And that was a big thing for us
is trying to find something that not
just brings value but you could do it
like in an often and repeated way.
>> And you build up this like also just
this corpus right over time right of
like you know especially if like
subsequent classes like physics 1 2 3
you can now go back and reference
physics 2 you get all this like lock in
right uh which is really powerful in
terms of like retention and things like
that.
>> Totally.
>> Let's dive into growth. How did you
promote the launch and and like what did
traction look like out of the gate?
>> Yeah. On so on the growth marketing
side, we as I mentioned before, we
wanted to get traction. There's a great
quote by I think Sam Alman, right, which
is momentum is like oxygen for a
startup. So you want to get as much
momentum as soon as possible. And I know
in some way I'm stating the obvious, but
there are very clear trade-offs, right?
In some cases, you delay a launch. In
some cases, you want to perfect certain
flows or perfect this and that. Maybe
you delay your launch because of hiring,
whatever. I think the thing that we got
really really right from the start is we
wanted to get as much momentum as
possible as quickly as possible because
momentum is like oxygen. You just feed
off of that momentum and and it lets you
put more and more energy and more and
more cash if you need to into the
company to keep it growing. So in the
early days it was very obvious that we
were going to use social media to grow.
I think we live in this really
interesting time where it does not
matter generally speaking how many
followers you have on short form video.
It just matters if you make great
content. And so we were trying
everything in the beginning. I have some
interesting stories. I don't know if I
should share them but maybe we can
circle back to those early days. I mean
it is like a true grind right and it
felt it feels good right to be part of
that game but we were trying everything
we could and then I would say we worked
with you know easily 30 content creators
of various types in the early days I
would say in the first two months and
really three of them ended up making a
huge difference one of them in
particular ran the main coconut.app app
account and generated hundreds of
millions of views. And I think I can
speak for Brett on this.
>> We're very lucky to have worked with him
and started working with him very early
on because he was a key part of our
growth.
>> I know you guys don't want to say it,
but that was Mr. Beast.
>> Jimmy, if you're listening, we'd love to
work with you.
>> Uh I So I was going to ask the model
there, did were were you two ever
dancing on a TikTok? Did you like try
any first-party stuff yourself or did
you go straight to like, hey, we're just
going to like identify creators and have
them run and like that's in itself a
process, right? You're like trying
different creators and seeing who's
good. How did you did How did you do it?
>> I think Brett danced on Tik Tok a couple
times, then we got banned and so then we
had to figure out what else to do.
>> It was that good.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um so we were not dancing on
Tik Tok, but we were definitely talking
to a lot of creators and studying like
what's working in the market. Um plenty
of learnings I'd say on the on the
growth side. I don't know if this is
exactly relevant but some some timeline
there within 45 days we had crossed
100,000 ARR within four months we
crossed a million and then within five
months we had crossed 2 million and so
we just had more and more capital more
and more confidence to reinvest into the
company to keep growing and keep working
with creators. Did you guys I mean this
gets into cash flow questions but being
bootstrapped is I think it's very
interesting but like did you at all
infuse cash in at all or were you I
guess maybe by the way of not taking any
money out for yourselves or anything
like that like it's a flywheel but like
you kind of there's like a minimum buy
in to get scale for these like how did
you manage that?
>> Yeah, it's a bit of both of what you
said both of adding some in and it's
really slow in the beginning on Apple
like the delay of get paid.
Yeah.com/payouts.
I don't know if we have that set up yet,
but we're working on a product there.
>> It's really slow in the beginning,
especially if you then try to like
recognize your revenue on an acrruel
basis and things like that, which we had
to learn. And it
>> it's a good way to descend into madness
is what that
>> Yeah. So, yeah, we put in a bit both in
the beginning to get things going and
then we really don't have even today
much of a free tier. You can use it a
little bit before you start a free
trial, but that helped as well. did cogs
of produc like the LLM calls and like
all that stuff. Does was that material
for you guys where you had to consider
it or was there enough of a spread? It
didn't really matter.
>> Not really. I I think in the beginning
we didn't pay much attention to it.
Always felt like it'd be a good problem
to have if we end up having that
problem. And then as we grew, you know,
there's like startup plans you can get
on in the first year, free credits,
things like that. And then as we rolled
off of those, we did make some decisions
to be more like cost efficient, but it
was overall totally fine. Yeah, you have
to figure in like the giving away tokens
at the beginning of an experience is
just part of your CAC kind of, right?
It's like you have to give that away. I
think too many people again it's like
yeah I mean maybe maybe Zach having gone
through a venture back you kind of had
the model of like capital equals growth
because I think I see sometimes with
bootstrap David's bootstrapped a lot of
things but like because the um you know
dipping below the zero is into your
personal money like there tends to be a
real hesitance right and that it's
almost it's it is almost easier to bet I
mean it's why a lot of people raise
venture I don't think it's a bad reason
to is like it's easier to spend somebody
else's money it really is right and
there's good and bad things about that
the good things being is like you're a
little bit credited protected or
whatever and all those but like you know
from the bootstrapper side I think
sometimes you know like people are
hesitant and not even in like I'm going
to spend 100k my own money like that's a
big swing but even like oh I can't even
ship a product with negative gross
margins or even like even like risk my
gross margins because oh my god what's
going to happen right and I think that
can make you make some really suboptimal
decisions right if you're too concerned
about with it too early almost
everything gets cheaper at scale right
like as you get bigger one you figure
out how to make it cheaper
models are deflationary like our models
are getting cheaper. So even like
today's functionality will just be half
the cost in a year when the time comes.
Yeah, it's a flip side. In computer
science, they always say no premature
optimization. That's totally true in
companies too. Like don't don't optimize
at the beginning. So that's really
interesting. So you guys had like very
low cogs, maybe higher than like an app
that didn't have any AI like backing,
but not not something that was a
concern. And then you just you just
started the flywheel with a little bit
of your own cash to like get it going.
And then and then did it just was it
just like pull out reinvest pull out
reinvest like cycle all the way up? Was
it was it fairly smooth or how did the
how did the scaling go?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I would say so. Um we were
able to just uh continue working out of
the the app store revenue. Stripe as
well. We have an Android app now. And
one interesting thing is that like the
the audio transcription costs are
actually more than the LLM generally.
And so that's like one that might be
surprising, but even there like the
local models are getting really good.
And I think that if we were starting
from scratch, we could probably use
those.
>> Yeah. I mean, I guess it's like you only
need you need you need good
transcription quality, not like perfect
maybe, right? Like especially if the LM
is probably, you know, it's going to
know it's going to know the professor
didn't say fish, right? Or something
like it's going to do a pretty good job
of like fixing that, I would imagine.
Jacob, one one thing to add on to this
in terms of the finances is that we were
very mindful of the financial, you know,
structure from basically day one. We
knew we'd have to invest some upfront
and it was, you know, around 10,000
maybe each that we had to invest up
front to get things off the ground, but
pretty much every month from inception
to the acquisition, we were around 50%
ebidom margins. And so we really tried
to be lean. And then to your point
around raising or reinvesting, there are
absolutely trade-offs. One of the
reasons why I think we're so excited to
to now be under Quizlet is that we can
think longer term, right? We we can make
longer term decisions without this, you
know, make believe%.
Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And so I think your
ability to think long term is definitely
influenced by your capital structure,
your capital situation.
>> And so I'm very happy to have had that.
And then on the other side of it, right,
it is really nice to have the cash flow.
So that financial discipline I think led
us to have cash flow kind of throughout
which was nice.
>> Let's go back to process though because
I think a lot of folks will be
interested. So you each put in around
10K. How did you reach out to those
first creators? Were you just finding
people on TikTok and then DMing them?
And you know, were those early ones
paid? Did you do any kind of referral?
Like how did you get that flywheel
going? because so many people listening
to this podcast, you know, are trying to
figure that out.
>> It was an absolute grind in the
beginning because you're just trying to
find the channel that works, right? And
then you just want to exploit may not be
the right word, but you want to double
down and you really want to spam more or
less that channel until you reach the
limit. We were reaching out all the
above, David. So, we were reaching out
to creators through if they had an email
in their bio. Uh, funny observation
here. If you reach out to a content
creator, I have my opinions on
influencers that we can circle back to,
but if you reach out to a content
creator and their email is, you know,
it's at sunsetaggency.com
or something, any agency sounding,
you're too late. Those agencies exist to
eliminate the alpha that you are trying
to create. Okay? So, they are almost
always going to take more than they give
in terms of the value that they provide
to the company. There are always
exceptions 100%. But generally speaking,
that's been my observation.
>> Probably a lot of like mid-tier creators
too who like hear, oh, I have an agency
and they get it and it's actually like
value destructive for them.
>> Totally. Yeah. Absolutely. If they have
a Gmail in their bio and they have, you
know, 5 10k followers, good engagement,
that's great. That's a really nice sweet
spot. And these numbers are very
flexible. But we know whenever social
media switched over from a follower
graph to an interest graph and with a
for you page and algorithmic
distribution, the number of followers
you have matters less and less, right?
The quality of the content you create
matters a ton. So in at Scout, my last
startup, the product studio, our first
Tik Tok, got 8 million views. We had
never posted to the account before, but
we got 8 million views. It drove 150,000
signups over a 2-day period. I think at
that time, this was 2021. if we were an
app, not a website, I think we would
have been number one in in the app
store. And so I learned the value of
great content posted on Tik Tok at that
time. And so we knew that that would be
the case. It was just a matter of how do
we get there?
>> So that's what you meant about content
creator. And you I I noticed you chose
your words very carefully there, content
creator, not influencer. So the strategy
wasn't to find an influencer an
audience. The strategy was find a
content creator who produces great
content. 100%. Yeah, couldn't have said
it better myself.
>> One of the struggles with with UGC and
this playbook is generating content that
converts versus generating content that
just gets a bunch of views. And then
depending on how you're paying the
creators, you know, if you're paying on
a view basis, they can really rack up
the bill, you know, doing just funny Tik
Toks that get attention but then don't
convert. How did you address that both,
you know, financially and then also in
kind of learning what did convert and
kind of incentivizing that kind of
content?
>> Yeah, a couple things come to mind. One
is being hands-on with the content
creation team. So, today our content
team is about 25 people, 25 part-time
creators that are all contractors.
Throughout the the lifespan of Coconut
pre-acquisition, we were between five
and 10 maybe at the very most we had 12
content creators. And so we kept a very
small team. I worked with everyone
closely. I met with everyone onetoone. I
would say some of our competitors and
some people or some you know founders
that are building out similar creator
programs approach it very very
differently. So, we always had the
mentality, great quote by Brian Chesy,
who I look up to very much as like a
design background, CEO. He says, "We
want to build the the Navy Seals, not
the Navy." And we had that approach with
our team overall and especially on the
content team. So, get to know every
single one of the creators. Make sure
you spend time with them. Make sure
you're enabling them with what creative
actually works and letting them know
what converts. And it's not a perfect
science, but when you have a video
getting 20, 30 million views, you know
what impact it has, right? Because you
know exactly when it's going viral, and
then you can measure on those couple
days that it's going viral, what impact
did it have downfunnel. And so I think
it's just a matter of like spending time
with the content team, making sure they
know what converts, what doesn't
convert. And at the end of the day, what
we found is that if you frame your
product as a novel toy, people are going
to treat it like a toy. They do not want
to pay for that thing. they are you know
for better for worse I think people are
very entitled that if something's
digital it should be free right which is
probably subsidized by a lot of the
venture stuff built in the last 1015
years but if you frame it as a solution
to a problem then people are much more
willing to pay it attracts a higher
willingness to pay customer I know you
have a few stories related to that like
there's one video that got 41 million
views 4 and a.5 million likes like
massively viral video But that didn't
convert. I mean, I I would imagine you
had quite a few of those. Any lessons of
like why that one didn't convert
specifically?
>> I think it goes to framing your product
as a novel toy and not a solution to a
problem. So, we were experimenting with
something called PDF tobrain.com, which
we've sent since uh sunset. And we we
kind of thought Brett put it in a really
nice way. It would be kind of like a
Trojan horse. And so you can, you know,
picture this as, hey, I have this really
long PDF and I don't want to read it or
there's this really long video or
lecture recording, whatever it may be,
and I want to consume it in a way that
is, you know, more familiar to me. And
so we put a voice over with a background
kind of Minecraft parkour video. It was
one of several things that you could put
in the background. And uh, you know,
true brain rot. It gets roasted online,
but people absolutely loved it. But one
of the things that we learned is that
that is a toy and it's not something
that people are going to pay for. So, I
think it has a place in a product suite,
but it's definitely not the thing that's
going to move the needle in terms of
revenue traction.
>> Do you have this in in Coconut at all?
Can I brain rot my PDFs? Uh, just like,
you know, bespoke, nice, tasteful brain
rot. Do you know what I mean? Like
nature, like a nature video side by side
or something like this. It's not there
right now, but you know, I think we just
need to tidy up some of the product and
we can we can bring it back.
>> Has anybody I mean this is off topic,
but has anybody done any like research
on this? Cuz like it just like took off
this like thing of like split screening
all these videos, right? I mean, I used
to work with a bunch of like animators
and stuff and they would always have
like a video up on the side and like the
theist I always had is like like you had
something engaging or verbal center like
listening to something or watching
something so that your drawing center.
Yeah. I don't know if this is real or
not, neurology, but this is almost the
inverse, right? Where it's like have
something engaging your visual center,
like your visual distraction, whatever,
so that your like verbal center can like
listen and actually take in the content.
We've slapped this like brain rot label
on it sort of like which is it's funny,
right? But like there's probably
actually some at least a research worthy
neurological benefit to it potentially
like if the people like it, right? And
there you go. It's you're putting actual
content in there. It's like, you know,
so what's the harm, right? What's the
harm? I do think there's something
there, Jacob. I'll plug one of our
drops, one of our products, uh, and a
feature is speedreadit.com.
We saw a demo on Twitter X and it was a
way to read, you know, I would say
significantly faster than you can if
you're just reading a document or a PDF,
right?
>> By doing, I forget what the method's
called, like where the word stays
centered and it like slides across.
>> Exactly. And to your point, Jacob, one
of the things that they do in the demo
is they play classical music in the
background. And so we kind of made our
own I think using 11 labs and it's
something that occupies some part of the
brain and you're right absolutely it'd
be amazing to have more scientific
research on this but the intuition and
the like observed experience with this
is very much if some parts of your brain
are satisfied or occupied then you're
much more likely to be able to
concentrate on something else right
maybe the words that are in front of
you. So we do a lot of experiments like
that. It's funny. Yeah, the labeling of
it as brain rot is like uh maybe a
disservice, right?
>> True. But it it is interesting that
those didn't convert. Well, you learned
those kind of lessons around what didn't
convert. Any takeaways from what did? I
mean, you know, you you've shared a high
level, but like more specifically, you
know, were you better demonstrating the
product in the video? Were there better
hooks? Like what were the things that
convert? because that I mean that's
what's so tough right now with UGC is to
actually produce those like converting
videos and and hooks.
>> Yeah, I think at a high level you want
to make sure that your product is seen
as a solution to an existing problem or
as Brett mentioned it resonates deeply
at an identity level. So I am fit
therefore I'm going to use ladder as an
example or I am a runner so I'm going to
use runner or strava and so you want
content that is more identity focused
building brand affinity within a certain
audience or market and or shows your
product as a solution to a problem and
those broadly speaking are what we see
the most the best conversion with. So
much of what you did was UGC and trying
to go viral. But did you take any of
those videos and turn them into paid and
did you do any paid, you know, as you
grew?
>> We tried and we don't do it anymore. I
think that it's something that I would
like to try again. But under our our
model, you know, like what would have
been success for us was being first
first purchase profitable on the ads and
we weren't able to get there. I think
that looking back, you know, there it
could be part of like the market that
you're advertising towards, but it also
could be that I don't know, Zach, I'm
curious what you think of this, but I
feel like neither of us like took a ton
of ownership there to really like spend
like more than half our time or more
than half our time on it. And so, we
kind of just like slowly didn't get
anywhere. And if we did it again, I feel
like we could figure it out. you kind of
need I mean maybe not a full-time person
but like I mean you should always be
kind of doing growth and product all at
the same time right and so you can split
that up maybe each of you is doing half
growth half product or one person doing
product one person doing growth or
engineering and product however you want
to split it but like I always felt I've
very similar experience for perform or
performance marketing it's like Zach if
you didn't do the like creator marketing
you probably could have dedicated the
time and got deep on it and all that
stuff but I think that's why I don't
know how much this is true now but like
you people shipping an indie app and the
first thing they do is like oh I got to
stop Facebook ads and like whatever and
it's like you might not you know one the
spends you got to do to get the good
data the attention it's going to take
it's like that should not be the first
tool you grab for I think I think UGC
that channel is much more controllable
and like much more um probably if you
find it much more efficient I don't know
this might be true broadly for all
growth channels like there's very few
growth channels that you can halfass if
you want them to work like you got to
try you know everybody's trying, right?
So, if you're not trying, it's like
you're not going to you're not going to
be able to break through.
>> Yep. And I would say if you're just
starting out and you don't know where
your customers hang out online, that's
bad news. Why would you start running
ads? That indicates some lack of
fundamental knowledge that you should
have as a founder. Like, if you don't
know where your customers are hanging
out online, that that's that's bad news.
To Brett's question, it was certainly
underexplored.
I think it's hard. We worked with some
very good and solid people, but it's
hard outsourcing some things to an
agency because I think the incentives,
generally speaking, of an agency, I
heard someone put it this way, is like,
you know, they will do enough to keep
you happy, but they're never going to be
as invested. And so, I think aligning
incentives in some really sharp way
around performance marketing is a good
idea. One thing that surprised me is we
always thought you could just pour fuel
on the fire. So those videos that are
getting 30 million views, let's assume
they convert well. Well, let's just run
ads behind it. Why would it not work
just as well? Surprisingly, that wasn't
really our experience. That when we
worked with an outside agency to do
clips, so we would, you know, have
basically B-roll and raw videos that
were unedited from the same content team
that was posting. And then we would
upload that into a a Google Drive and
share that with a like a clip agency.
they would chop it up and kind of make
something specific to performance
marketing that those as a creative that
cohort outperformed our more organic
approach. I found that really
interesting because I always assume you
could just pour fuel on the fire. With
that said, we still really weren't able
to get um ads to work and it's something
that I think we can invest in in the
future.
>> Targeting students I imagine made that
especially hard. I'm honestly surprised
at the the whole story of Coconote in
that college students and high school
students are famously hard to monetize.
So, let let's dig into h how did you get
kids to pay for your app and what was
the price and did you experiment with
pricing?
>> Yeah, great question. Definitely did a
lot of experimentation. I think we've
tried to always have something running.
Um, even at launch we were testing like
should there be a free trial or not. The
college student archetype, I would say,
didn't really like get to us. Like, we
didn't want that to limit us from
charging a lot of money. Like, we wanted
to be a premium product and be seen as a
premium product. I think that Zach and I
kind of just are product builders who
feel like we want to put something out
that has a lot of craft and charge for
it is part of it. Probably also like not
knowing what our cost would be is was
also part of it. So, we put the app out
charging $99 per year and $19.99 per
month. I think around like 80% of people
subscribe to the annual tier. So, we
push that pretty hard. And I think part
of like the price too is we want to be
seen as premium so that we also are seen
as as reliable. I I kind of like talked
about it a little bit earlier, but
there's a huge amount of trust you have
to gain to get someone to like stop
writing their notes and instead trust
that you will like take care of it cuz
they're going to have to be, you know,
take an exam on it either way. And I
think that the premium feeling helps
with that to to believe that we're not
going to lose their recording.
>> Yeah, I think it's a I mean, I don't
know, David, you probably have a better
sense, but just in terms of like the
utilities for students, not that that's
full what you guys are, but like that's
a high price point. I think of the ones
in my head I can think of off the top
it's like third of that maybe for an
annual right like 50 would be high which
you know I don't know if it works it
works right it's also nice that the in
terms of like not having it's being so
levered on ad spend right usually allows
you to go cheaper but I don't know I
mean you're a bootstrap company it's
better to have fewer higher paying
customers it really is maybe this was
mentioned but there's there was no
premium right so after a week can I keep
using it anyway or am I done
>> yeah you hit on a good few good things
there you can make one note for free
without starting a trial and and that's
it.
>> Basically a hard pay wall, you know, not
quite, but like essentially a hard pay
wall.
>> Yeah. And and we even I mean one of our
early experiments like we launched at
$99.99, but we one of our early tests
was raising it to 129 and we saw the the
magical like more users and more
revenues uh at the same time. And so
that's where we've been for most of most
of it. But I do think we are one of the
more expensive options on the market.
and to some of the reliability stuff.
Like you can go into the cheaper options
and start recording audio and like get a
phone call and lose your recording, you
know? Like Apple does not make it super
easy to do this in a reliable way. It's
it's really not like a meeting notetaker
on Zoom where you you like probably have
perfect Wi-Fi and your like computer is
taking care of
>> session based like you're actively
engaged in it, right? Like it's like PC
mostly. I mean, Zoom on the phone
doesn't work very well, right? It does
have suffer from those things like if
you get a phone call or something, it'll
kick you out and cancel your video and
things like that.
>> Y
>> that's tricky. I did AV session audio,
whatever. The Apple APIs for this are
not a dream. Uh having known for
personal experience, so uh like getting
those right, uh somebody's going to
roast me because I probably used the
wrong framework name. It's probably
changed five times. But obviously like
optimizing your price testing, there's
some of that. But like most of your
pricing authority just comes from having
a really good product. You know, it's
just having something that like people
will pay for and and scarcity, right?
It's like is there an is there a
comparable alternative? And if the
answer is no, you have a lot of you
know, really when really great products
are hard to make, right? So if it's a
rare thing, if you made a really great
product, it's a rare thing, you can
charge a lot for it because it's just
not it's just not anywhere. I think
we've seen this in AI tools generally
like two years ago there was only like
one model that was really really good
and they had a lot of pricing authority
and now there's like other comparable
models right and we've talked about the
prices are going down right it's like
very classic economic supply demand
which is interesting too cuz like did
you see I'm sure somebody like caught on
to your guys' game and was like oh we're
going to make no no note or something
right like somebody trying to like fast
follow you
>> there's got to be hund hundreds like
there's there's cocoonote like with an R
at the end. There's there's one that's
just like a different fruit instead of a
coconut. There's all kinds of clones out
there, you know? I'm sure it impacts us,
right? But they are kind of just like
mosquitoes in a way, you know, like
they're not taking themselves seriously.
>> I'm sure it impacts you, but it may not
be net negative, right? It may it may be
such that those are like lead gen or
like I've do this all the time. Come in,
I have a need, I I try the premium app,
it's like 100 and whatever. I'm like, I
just need it for like I just want to try
it and then I go to the second tier and
I'm like this sucks. Uh I'm going to go
back and like try the good one. It's not
always directly competitive, right? It's
that's only true in markets of a true
commodity, right? And apps I don't even
think there's any exceptions. Like apps
are not true commodities, right? They
can get close but like there's always
some difference and to some degree
commodities are not true commodities,
right? Unless they pass through some
very normal strong regulation process.
So yeah, I think like just generally
it's probably helps more than hurt would
be would be my guess because they're
also spending on ads probably, right? So
like and those users are going to see
that they're going to search cocooner
and they're going to see you number two
and they're going to be like wait this
one looks less sketchy. I wonder if some
of that pricing power also just came
from positioning and positioning it as a
tool for students. You know, we've
talked about this a lot on a podcast
like you know ladder in the health and
fitness industry. They're charging $130
a year in an industry where it's $130 a
month to go to a nice gym and like $130
an hour for a trainer. And for college
students, I mean, paying 40, 50,
$100,000 a year to go to school and then
this is $130 a year. I I did see one of
your ads was like, uh, my friend's mom
got her this app, Cocoon Note. Did you
kind of position it of like, you know,
bug your parents to help pay for this or
or like was there any of of that that
you did find successful?
>> Yeah, especially in the early days, a
good portion of our videos that are
going viral on our Instagram were
around, you know, my mom just changed my
life. And so we did spend a good portion
of the uh the early days.
>> That's for other mom. So that's not for
the student, right? Like you have a
student video that's like my mom changed
my life and then you see other mom being
like, "Oh, I want to change my pukam's
life." Right? That was very much the
thinking. I mean, the I used to say this
to our creators all the time. I said,
"Imagine you're on campus at, you know,
student orientation and you see a
daughter and her mom, right? And the
daughter's just starting college and her
mom's there with her." And I said, "Hey,
I would like you to go offer a a
notetaker, something that's going to
help improve your grades and, you know,
make sure you never miss a detail in
lecture, etc., help you study, be a
personalized study coach, etc." and it's
$130 to do it. Who are you going to ask?
I think the obvious answer is you're
going to ask the mom, right? And so
early on, we were very keen on marketing
to moms. I think we've since like to
taken a step back. And by the way, these
are not mutually exclusive. There's a
big overlap. It's finding who the buyer
and the most intent is, right? And you
can have good marketing to whoever might
be in need, right? I wonder how many app
developers get stuck down the route of
like, oh, I have to like advertise to
the primary user of the product, right?
And that may or may not be the decision
maker in a purchase.
>> David, to your broader question around
monetization, just two quick things to
add on that are a little bit higher
level. One, great majority of our
customers are lifelong learners, and so
they may be quote unquote
non-traditional students. Brett and I
have talked to a lot of our customers
that are, you know, not in the quote
unquote traditional 18 to 22 or 23 year
old college student age. They could be
studying for something that's not at an
accredited university. they could be at
a university but outside of that age
range any number of you know derivatives
there always amazing to to talk to
customers that are just making it
happen. Second thing is that I'm very
glad this again it's not very tactical
but I'm very glad we ignored traditional
conventional wisdom. I have a lot of,
you know, smart friends that if I would
have gone to with the the idea for
coconut, they would have said, "Zack, no
one's gonna buy this, right? You're
targeting college students that, right?"
And I'm so glad we did not do that. I
think in the early days of an idea, you
can almost imagine it like a seed and
you want to like shelter it from a lot
of harm, right? So that it it can at
least sprout because in hindsight, it's
like, "Oh, this was amazing. Congrats."
But only with the benefit of hindsight
do those smart people say that whenever
it starts out they will always gravitate
towards the reason it will not work. And
I think a much better framework is what
happens if it does work right what
impact can we have on our customers what
economic value can we create etc. So I'm
very glad we did that. Yeah, I mean
that's exactly why I asked the question
and what what I would have thought
externally, you know, just having heard
from so many. But it's like I mean it's
like my app, a weather app, like college
students are not going to pay for
weather app. And so a lot of the
conventional wisdom around what people
will and won't pay for is formed based
on totally different products. And so
when you come to the market with a
unique value prop with a brand new
product that's enabled by AI in a way
that you know you could never create
this product before it's like you you've
unlocked demand for that in a way that
nobody else had and can charge a premium
for it. So yeah it's really cool. One
thing on there is like we are aware that
like it's expensive and that there are
there are students at the end of the day
and we want Cooko to be available to as
many students as possible and it kind of
goes back to what Zach was saying
earlier around being able to think
longer term under Quizlet and stay tuned
on on that. But I I think that we'll be
able to get Cooko into more people's
hands in the future.
>> That's awesome. you know, one of the
keys in converting folks who saw this
UGC video is nailing the onboarding.
What were some of the lessons you
learned in, you know, getting people in
and convincing them of the value and
eventually, you know, getting them to
start that free trial? Yeah, I think
that there's kind of like a like a meta
at this point for consumer apps of have
a long onboarding and then hit them with
a hard payw wall or basically get
someone to start a trial within the
first session honestly if not 24 hours
and we have always had like a decent
onboarding but we hadn't spent a ton of
time optimizing it and we ran a test
trying to basically like double the
length. I think our onboarding is 15
screens or something. I remember when we
started talking to Quizlet team, that's
something that they commented on. I
mean, it really works. Like, it really
works to get people a bit more invested
into what they're doing and feel like
it's more personalized, show them some
social proof, and it increased our trial
start by 16%. Which we already felt like
it was pretty good. And so, to continue
to raise it was was awesome. And it's
one of those things that continues to
compound. What's funny is like as an
engineer whenever you start a new
product you kind of like build the login
screen first and because you kind of
need it right to start playing around
with things and then it ends up staying
there throughout the rest of the the
product but one of the nice things about
being like there's not always a lot of
nice things about being in Apple and
Google's walls but uh one of the nice
things is you actually don't really need
to create an account to make a purchase
because you're already signed into your
Apple or Google account. So I think the
biggest win that we had was moving log
to after the payw wall basically at the
end of onboarding.
>> It's very interesting. It's like a
there's some I think revenuecat.com
makes this pretty easy. But that is
tricky, right? Like being able to take a
payment before you have an identity
marker being able to associate those.
There's a bunch of plumbing we do to
like make that possible. And that
introduces a lot of complexity now
because now and but which is there no
matter where you put it is that the like
Apple purchase state and the like the
account state are like not the same
thing which isn't the case when you
control the entire like purchase
payments flow like you would if you were
doing Stripe on the web or something
like this. It is a big advantage, right?
You know, users don't have to think
about it. You're not pulling out a
credit card. It's like they know it's
secure.
>> Yeah. They've kind of already done the
double tap to pay at that point. So
they'll double tap to sign in. I think
we were seeing like 10% drop off by
having login being the very first
screen.
>> Were you capturing any contact details
before that?
>> No, this this is just like you download
the app and open it and now you're
forced to create an account.
>> Well, once people do start that free
trial and as a hard payw wall, keeping
them and having them convert is that
next big key. what what were the unlocks
there for helping people convert and and
any stats around your trial start and
trial conversion rates that you want to
share?
>> I feel like web and e-commerce have had
like a really big lead when it comes to
this stuff like the real like
optimizations and and the benefits of
being like outside of Apple's walls. Um
it's more of like the wild west of what
you can do. Um, we wanted to try some
cancellation flows there on our website
and there's like the standard asking
questions about why they're cancelling
things like that. And we were able to
retain like 25% of people from
cancelling, which we felt like was
pretty big. And to do that, we tried
three things. One of them is like your
standard discount offers. You get 30%
off if you stay or something like that.
Another one is pausing. So because we
have students as our users, they come
May or June, they don't want they don't
want to keep paying over the summer. And
so we thought we could try pausing for 3
months. And then the last one was trial
extensions. And this is one that I
haven't seen that much, but basically if
you're on a free trial and you go to
cancel, then we basically say, do you
need do you just need more time? And
offer them seven more days. And that was
the most successful one by far. And it
really keeps people on that autorenew.
And I I think it's so hard to get them
back onto auto renew once they once they
leave. But um that was a big win for us.
And I think there's a way to actually do
this on Apple and Google now, too. And
so I'm going to be um exploring that.
>> Apple does now have it's in it's in
limited beta right now. You have to ask
for it and get approved and everything
like that, but it's a retention offers
in App Store settings. Like when they're
actually outside of your app trying to
cancel, uh you can now like show a
screen and offer a discount and things
like that. I I don't I actually don't
know off the top of my head what all you
can do. I think it's only a discount. I
don't think you can add additional
trial. Are y'all doing any of that
inside the app as well? Like do you have
inside settings where people go to to
like look for cancellation inside the
app or or is that only on the web that
you're you're seeing those wins and
doing that?
>> It's only on the web. It's also in the
app if you subscribe through Stripe and
then we can just show it in a web view.
But yeah, that's the one that I still
want to bring to to mobile. Yeah, it's
harder to do with Apple Payments, but
worth trying. Well, as we wrap up, I did
want to like actually talk through the
acquisition. How how did that start?
What was the the process? Did they reach
out to you? You reach out to them? Did
you talk to a banker about selling a
broker? What was the process?
>> Quizlet actually reached out. I would
say we were only a few months old and we
were talking with Quizlet. I remember
when Brett first brought it to me. He
was like, hey, you know, someone reached
out. Should we take this call? And I
said, you know, I'd rather not just say
we're heads down building. We had been
around for a couple months. Like, what
could possibly come of that? And uh I
think Brett literally slept on it and he
came back and said, I'd really like to
take the call. Like, let's just see what
you know what's going on.
>> I don't know. Some people know what they
want to do with the company when they
start it. Some people don't. Was this
like pre-ised at all? Did you be like,
"Hey, we want to build this and sell
this. Hey, we just want to see this."
Did you have those discussions or was
did it was it more open-ended?
>> I would say we we had a healthy outlook
and we didn't have our blinders on. We
had conversations with a handful of
companies eventually when we kind of
committed to going down this path it was
taking up a good bit of time. And
that's, you know, the one thing I would
say to other founders. If you're getting
inbound and you're really weighing the
options here of acquisition, I would say
make sure you keep your eye on the ball
cuz the moment you take your eye off the
ball, they're going to that will reflect
negatively in the ongoing conversations.
We'll say that. And so the the moment we
kind of said, hey, we're going to take
this seriously, but we want to keep our
energy focused on building and growing
the product, we worked with an
investment bank. We worked with a
partner named Chris Park at Areative
Partners, and they were really great to
work with. and then they kind of led the
process from there. So we actually got
in back in touch with Quizlet through
the investment bank baker. So we built a
relationship with Quizlet and uh we we
really loved I think there's a lot of
mission overlap for what it's worth.
Something that we haven't covered is
that Cocoon's mission is to give
learners superpowers and that is not the
explicit mission of Quizlet but I would
say in spirit it is very very similar
right learners can be of all ages. For
me, one of the things that I love about
our mission statement is that we
acknowledge on the superpowers front, it
is intentionally vague. The foundational
LLM, you know, or AI model providers are
doing amazing work and we have no right
to compete with them. So, we want to
recognize that and our job is to
basically tailor the foundational work
that's being done, the amazing
foundational work, turn it into a
superpower for learners. And so while
that isn't the explicit mission of
Quizlet, it's very much in spirit I
would say the mission in some way, shape
or form of Quizlet. And so we were able
to think much longer term. A lot of
things kind of over overlapped and
thankfully the deal closed in December
of last year.
>> Yeah. I mean and I have to imagine just
having like mission alignment also like
I mean I have to speak as a Quizlet user
and like of you know a watcher for a
long time. It's a great company, right?
They have good brand, they have good
products, right? Uh makes it a lot
easier to kind of swallow the idea of
like your baby going someplace else. Um,
and obviously like the integration work
which I'm sure you're doing now and like
all of that stuff is like you know it's
not just a dollar in very rare cases
it's a dollar a dollars and a signature
and it's over right like there's there's
a partnership that will take many years
right as this plays out but like from
from okay we're going to do this or
we're seriously thinking about it till
like closed the deal like how long did
that last for you guys?
>> It was kind of running in the background
throughout the year throughout last
year. I mean there's there's different
like phases.
>> There's the talking phase, then there's
the Netflixing phase, right? Yeah.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's there's that,
but also with the banker like the
banker's preparing things on their end
and stuff like that where we're not
really like actively doing anything and
they're just getting ready to reach out
to people. So, it was um it felt like a
long time to be honest.
>> That's a long time. Like your whole
company's two years and change, right?
So, like
>> it's half of it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Chris was kind of our
our third co-founder a little bit.
>> H that's great. Tell me if I'm cutting
too deep, but did you keep it to between
the two of you or did like the rest of
the team know or like how did you manage
that for that period of time?
>> Yeah. Yeah, we we kept it between us. It
felt like the kind of thing where, you
know, we ourselves were not banking on
anything happening, you know, like we
didn't want to feel like it was in the
bag or anything like that and so we
wouldn't want to share it.
>> Yeah. It's it's it can be a real
distraction. like just literally like
you start counting your money or
whatever, you know, even if especially
if you don't know what the deal is going
to be shaped like, right? You just start
imagining and and whatever. I mean, I'm
sure for you guys it was even if you
managed it well, probably took a lot of
mental fortitude to kind of keep it
compartmentalized and keep leading the
business. And so you you managed to keep
growing through that whole period uh
that you were very happy with.
>> Yeah, totally. I don't think we have the
the metrics pulled up, but but revenue
grew quite a bit. I would say roughly
doubled uh throughout that time. Jacob,
I think you you may appreciate this. My
wife didn't even know, much less the
folks on the team.
>> Wow, that's a commitment. I would never
be able to hold that line. And so, yeah,
she, you know, she knew we were talking
with Quizlet, but she had no knowledge
of like, you know, where the process
stood. And
>> I think that's smart. You're like not
letting it leak out a part of your mind,
right? You're just being like keeping it
compartmentalized and be like, "Hey,
this is just this little thing. I'm not
going to treat it like a thing until
it's real, right?" and getting a spouse
overly, you know, excited and like it's
hard enough as an individual not letting
it distract you of like, oh, the money's
coming and like what am I going to do
with the money or like, oh, it's going
to be such a relief. I mean, there's so
many like emotions tied into it. And
then with another person, then all their
emotions get tied into it. Any baggage
they have about like money and security
and everything else like that, like it
it's a very emotional thing. Okay, Zach,
did they find out like after close? Like
there was some point that you told them
that this deal was going to happen,
right? You check they still don't know.
>> Yeah. Have you told them? Are they going
to find out on the pod from the pod?
>> Yeah. Well, I wouldn't send her a sub
club pod. I'm kidding.
>> It's not really your back.
>> Um the story is uh is is pretty funny.
We were driving from uh North Carolina.
So, it was right before the holidays.
And uh we were driving from North
Carolina where I'm from originally. So,
we were visiting my family up to
Connecticut to see my wife's family and
I was day one of the flu. So, I felt
terrible. It was one of the worst drives
of my life. So, uh yeah, you know, Brett
and I were talking and uh we were kind
of waiting for for things to really
close, i.e. the the wire. And so, yeah,
when it happened, I pulled over into a
Taco Bell parking lot and I told my wife
and uh we celebrated with Taco Bell. She
cried.
>> That was that was the first moment she
had heard of it. She was familiar, but
she wasn't familiar with like where
things stood. So, she knew something
was, you know, going on. You know, she
knew we flew out to San Francisco and
met with the Quizlet team. A lot of
people listening to this podcast, I'd
say everybody has a life outside of sub
club podcast. They're silly little apps,
you know what I mean? Like, and and like
how those integrate and these these
things like the spouses and the people
around us, like they influence this
stuff and like how we interact with them
really matters. and like your psychology
bleeds into their psychology and back
and forth and and I think uh it doesn't
get talked about much like most not many
people have been through this
>> early on I started reaching out to you
know founder CEOs to talk about M&A
process and and kind of how they handled
it how they thought about it people that
have been through it you know
successfully whatever and one of the
best pieces of advice I got is you know
I think a great leader shelters other
people and so people on the team our
engineers content creators they didn't
know about it until the day of close
it's not that we were withholding
information because we didn't want them
to know. It's that we wanted to shield
them.
>> Nothing happened yet. And these things
fall apart in the last week.
>> Totally. Signal to noise. And I think
it's the same thing, you know, with my
wife that it was just like a signal to
noise. I wanted to shelter her from
that. But I think the way, you know, she
reacted was a it was very much like the
founder. If you guys have seen that,
>> the McDonald's movie.
>> Exactly. Clearly, we're not, you know,
Coconut's not McDonald's. But I think
there's there are similar emotions from
going through it from failing time and
time again and to finally having
something that a lot of people dream of
and to be partnered with a company like
Quizlet. It's a really fantastic moment
to share.
>> How has your life been different like
mentally as founders stuff like pre and
post like maybe in in ways you expected
and maybe in ways you didn't.
>> On my side I think I focus on my health
more. I'm not a parent yet and hopefully
that is in uh my future for my wife and
I. But I assume parents have a similar
mentality where you take care of your
baby, you take care of your child more
so before you take care of yourself.
Like you can go without and your baby is
the one that you want to see flourish.
And you know, I guess it's probably the
best analogy that that Cocoon note was
my baby, our baby. Not to be weird,
Brett, but you know, it's like uh it's
something that you care so deeply about
that you make sacrifices with yourself.
And unfortunately, I had some weird like
health things come up in the last couple
years and I more or less ignored them.
But I think I've been able to focus
>> tech debt in the software world, right?
You took a little debt on health debt.
It's a real thing. I mean, especially if
you know there's like some sort of like
liquidity event or even not some sort of
event, some sort of thing that's like
like oneway door. You know, those
trade-offs make sense, right? I think
the similar calculation for people who
are holding for a long time, like that's
also important, right? you if you didn't
sell if you wasn't going to change the
operating model and how you guys are
operating at some point you would have
to address that right whether or not the
company sold or not right so it just
kind of changes the timing on on these
things which I guess kind of fits into
Zach the point you're making earlier
about like just how it allows you to
change your outlook like being sort of
like attached to a larger larger
organization I'm sure there's obviously
synergies between the products and like
those very interesting collaborations to
go on but also just having like being
attached to a larger resource pool like
lets you be a little more ambitious, let
you be a little more like long-term and
stuff like that, which I think is that's
the bullc case for selling to a good a
well-lined company, right? Is like you
can actually you are actually hoping to
have a net net market positive merger,
right? So that both parties are actually
worth more like after it. Um and those
are some of the reasons why, right?
>> If there is a wave of M&A with AI native
apps, very few founders will be able to
talk about the deal terms. be it they're
not comfortable or I would say more
likely because they don't want the corp
dev team or whatever the acquirer
doesn't want that information out there.
>> There's lots of reasons for both parties
to not talk about it which is very
understandable.
>> I still think it's great that you guys
and uh have been sharing with us and and
other founders too and and things like
this cuz yeah I mean Zach you kind of
hit on it like you can as a founder you
can go out and find those stories and if
you know and you can network but like
it's it's I don't think talked about
enough. This is also such a niche topic.
Like there's probably a couple thousand
people for whom will go through this
experience at any given period in the
shape that you guys have have gone
through. But I mean obviously like many
people listening to this podcast aspire
to do that. I do it's one path, right?
And I think there won't be another story
quite like Coconut, but there will be
others that that are similar, right? And
so it's good to get these written down
and and out there.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Thank you so much for sharing. I
think this is a great place to wrap up.
You know what a what a great story and
and thank you both for like being so
open to share
>> and congrats. Did I say congrats at the
beginning like congrat what what a what
a congrats to both to Quizlet as well.
I'm sure they're listening like uh what
a get you know good for them good for
you guys.
>> Anything else you all want to share as
we're wrapping up I know being part of
Quizlet now you've probably had some uh
more people you're wanting to hire and
things you're wanting to do with the
app. Anything you wanted to shout out
there?
>> Yeah. Yeah, sure. I mean first thank you
guys so much for having us on. We're
huge fans of everything that that you
guys do. Zach and I are part of Quizlet
and Quizlet's hiring across product
design, engineering, all of that. I
specifically think that I I'm hoping I
can find an iOS engineer out of this
podcast.
>> This is a great audience for that.
>> Should you meet my friend Codex? Uh he's
very good at it. Uh yeah,
>> so I'm continuing to work on the Coconut
engineering team, but also the sub
subscription growth in general at
Quizlet. And so if anyone is interested
in coming and building pay walls for
Quizlet, we're one of the biggest
premium consumer apps out there. We've
got we can run experiments that add a
million dollars of revenue per year and
it's a lot of fun and we're looking for
for iOS engineers.
>> Well, congrats again and thanks so much
for joining us. This was a lot of fun. I
appreciate y'all.
>> Thank you guys.
>> Thank you.
>> Thanks so much for listening. If you
have a minute, please leave a review in
your favorite podcast player. You can
also stop by chat.subclub.com
to join our private community.